[THEME MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
One of the luxuries
of doing this program,
I get to deal with
some incredible guests.
And we have one for you
tonight, Brad Olsen.
Brad, of course, is an
expert in ancient mysteries
and he's a publisher.
What kind of books
do you publish, Brad?
>>BRAD OLSEN: I do
general nonfiction
as long as they're along the
lines of esoteric subjects,
sacred places are the books
that I wrote three out
of four in this series,
and guests that you've
had on "Coast to Coast,"
like Lon Milo DuQuette did
"The Key to Solomon's Key," and
Leo Lyon Zagami is our newest
author at CCC Publishing.
>>NOORY: So you're the guy.
>>OLSEN: I'm the guy.
>>NOORY: How did you
get started doing that?
>>OLSEN: Well, I
first traveled around
the world for three
years, saw many
of these places we're going
to talk about tonight,
knew that there was a huge
back story behind them that
really wasn't being reported.
And just through
my love of travel
and also being an illustrator
and being a published artist
since junior high, just
got into book publishing
and stuck with it.
I have a great distributor in
Chicago, Independent Publishers
Group, and they've
been very supportive
and just keep it going.
>>NOORY: Good for you
because the book industry
is a tough industry right
now because everybody
is used to reading quick
little internet lines.
The old days of reading
books, for the young people,
seems to have waned away.
We need to get that back, Brad.
>>OLSEN: We do, indeed,
and it's unfortunate
that the millennial
generation doesn't read as
much as the previous ones did.
But I'll tell you, ebooks have
given us a new fresh boost
in the industry.
It is a new emerging market
where there once was none.
And quite frankly,
speaking as a publisher,
you don't have the returns, you
don't have the printing costs,
and you don't have
warehousing fees.
>>NOORY: I used to remember
on book signings I would
be at a bookstore
and the publisher
would try to insist, sign all
the books, sign all the books.
I guess once you sign them,
they can't return them, right?
There's always a
little secret there.
>>OLSEN: Little tricks
of the trade, right?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Well, this evolutionism
as a publisher
has also led you into covering
and writing books on your own
in incredible places.
How did you get interested
in these ancient mysteries
and civilizations?
>>OLSEN: Well,
right out of college
I decided to self finance
my own trip around Europe.
I went for three months after
painting houses in college
and made enough money
to self finance my trip.
Unfortunately, a
few of my buddies
dropped out but I went solo.
I thought I was
doing great, and I
met these Australians and
Kiwis that said, three months?
We've been on the road
for three years, mate.
So I said, how do you do it?
And they said, work as you go.
And I went to Japan
a few years later,
taught English,
made enough money
to finance my own three-year
trip around the world.
And invariably found
myself attracted
to go into these locations
and learning more about them.
And then down the line,
when the opportunity
arose to do the books, I
already had that information.
>>NOORY: Three years straight?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And you just
went from place to place?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Where did you live?
>>OLSEN: Well, when
I was in Japan--
and I include my 14 months
teaching English in Japan
into that three years-- only
my dad came out to visit me,
so I hadn't seen any
friends or family
or anyone for three years.
And then when I was
on the road, it's
easy enough to find a guest
house or inexpensive hotel
to stay at.
>>NOORY: Save a few bucks
and off you go, huh?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
I mean it's very
inexpensive to travel
in countries like southeast
Asia, around parts of Africa.
Even some parts of Europe
are fairly inexpensive.
>>NOORY: What have you
concluded about this planet
and these other
locations compared to us
here in North
America, for example?
>>OLSEN: Well, my
conclusion is the story
is incomplete that we're
getting through academia.
We're not getting the true
story of the great pyramids,
and I know we're going to get
into that, as well as some
of the other monuments,
especially the megalithic,
especially the
very old monuments.
There is technology
that has been employed
in the construction of
many of these monuments
that modern machinery
and cranes are still not
capable of handling.
>>NOORY: That's what's
so baffling, isn't it?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Now, when you
talk about the science,
it's not telling us
or keeping abreast
of what's been
happening, is it error
by omission or are they trying
to truly do this on purpose
and not tell us anything?
>>OLSEN: It's a little
of both, but it's
a story that's so big
and encompassing that it
would truly rewrite
history as we know it.
And just for example,
the way we're
taught in grammar
school about Columbus
making this unique discovery.
Columbus, to his
dying day, thought
he had discovered the
islands off of India.
He never even came to
the conclusion himself
that he discovered
a new content.
>>NOORY: That's what he
thought he stumbled across?
>>OLSEN: To his dying day, yeah.
And that's what
they were going for.
They were trying to find a
new route to the spice islands
by going the opposite way.
>>NOORY: That was a long route.
>>OLSEN: It would
have been, but they
thought the globe was
a lot smaller then
and for the boats that they
sailed in to find islands
many weeks or months away would
have seemed like they would
have traveled around the world.
>>NOORY: I'm trying to remember
what three ships he had.
He had the Santa Maria, he had
the Pinta, and he had one more.
>>OLSEN: Starts with an N.
>>NOORY: The Nina.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Which one was he in?
>>OLSEN: That I'm not sure.
I think Santa Maria,
but I'm not positive.
And I think they
lost one, as well.
>>NOORY: They did lose one.
I think they may have
lost the Santa Maria.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, and that
was the biggest, I believe.
>>NOORY: That must have
been an incredible journey.
Brad, can you imagine that?
Traveling, going on and on and
on and not running into land?
>>OLSEN: Or half of
the sailors thinking
that they're going to fall
off the edge of the Earth.
>>NOORY: Going to go
right over the edge.
>>OLSEN: Very superstitious.
>>NOORY: I wonder if
they mutinied at all.
>>OLSEN: Not on that trip,
but I think on others.
Of course, with Captain Bligh,
the mutiny on the Bounty.
There were episodes like that.
But in order to
run an expedition
of that caliber or
anyone else, you
had to have a very
disciplined crew.
And that's why they resorted
to flogging and very harsh
disciplinary actions to
keep the sailors in line.
>>NOORY: Favorite
mysteries of the planet.
>>OLSEN: Has to be
the great pyramids.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: There are just so
many unanswered questions
about that, as well as some
of the other finds in Egypt
which date many
thousands of years
earlier than the standard
Egyptologists are
having us to believe.
This is an ancient culture.
This is something that
could go all the way back
to even the survivors
of Atlantis.
>>NOORY: It is one of the
most fascinating aspects,
I think, too, I agree
with you, on this planet.
We've got a video here
of the Great Pyramid
so let's take a look.
>>NARRATOR: Building
the Great Pyramid
was an astonishing achievement.
There are eight major
feats of engineering
involved in the building.
First the builders leveled the
ground and cut a 6,000-hectare
bedrock to fit many
strangely shaped slabs,
each one as heavy as a car.
Second, they carried 130
granite blocks over 500 miles.
Each block weighed
between 12 and 70 tons.
The blocks were hauled up to 210
feet, an achievement which even
today would be a challenge.
Third, the Great Pyramid has
three chambers inside it.
With breathtaking
precision, the builders
cut a passage through the
solid rock 300 feet long
by three feet wide to
reach the lowest chamber.
>>NOORY: Brad, truly
an incredible feat,
building those great pyramids.
Truly remarkable.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely,
and inexplicable.
How were they able to get 70-ton
granite finely cut blocks--
>>NOORY: 500 miles.
>>OLSEN: --transported
to this site
and then 300 feet
up into the complex?
They tried to build
a small replica
of the Great Pyramid in
Japan a few years ago,
failed miserably.
Couldn't even finish it.
>>NOORY: Even with
today's modern technology?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
And then you look at
some of the hewn stones
at Baalbek in Lebanon, not
too far away from Egypt.
They don't even have a crane
today that could lift those.
So what we're looking at is
some kind of lost technology.
I think it was done with
auditive levitation, which
is matching the
frequency of the block
itself, rendering it
weightless, and then
able to move it into place.
>>NOORY: How come we've
lost that technology?
What happened?
Or was it ever ours?
>>OLSEN: If there was
a civilization that
had this kind of
technology, that
built these kind of monuments,
clearly a lot of resources
went into building
the Great Pyramid.
That has been lost.
We don't do those
kind of things today.
And clearly we went
into a dark age.
We went into a
very savage period.
>>NOORY: Something happened.
>>OLSEN: Yeah,
where they were just
wars and knowledge was lost and
then things started rebuilding.
>>NOORY: Cataclysms?
>>OLSEN: You could
consider that as well.
>>NOORY: Wiping
out civilizations.
And I think the
pyramids might be much
older than most people think.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
Well, we know about the Sphynx
having the weather pattern
dating on the sides
that could have only
been created by water.
Well, I've been to
Egypt and it's very much
a giant desert out there.
There is no water.
>>NOORY: Well, Mars is
now a giant desert, too.
Look what happened there.
>>OLSEN: What does
that tell you?
And so if we look at
the dating of the Sphynx
going back 10,000,
perhaps 12,000 years,
it would be logical to conclude
that the whole Giza complex was
created around the same time.
So then we're looking
at Egyptologists
tell us 3,000 BCE, we're now
looking a more like 10,000,
12,000, and then even
some of the artifacts
that have been found in some
of the tombs, 30,000 years BCE.
>>NOORY: With apparently
no technology?
I can't believe it.
>>OLSEN: Or using copper
tools to finely cut
granite, which is one of
the hardest stones there is.
But not only that, they've
found other stones not too far
from the Giza Plateau that
show expert planing abilities,
laser cut--
>>NOORY: You can't put a razor--
>>OLSEN: Can't even do that.
>>NOORY: --between them.
>>OLSEN: There
are some capstones
that I saw on the
Great Pyramid that
were buried under the sand
that have been recovered,
and you're absolutely right.
I tried to do it.
We tried to put a piece of
paper or an ID card through it,
can't do it.
They're that finely--
>>NOORY: Precise.
>>OLSEN: Precise.
>>NOORY: Gosh.
The architecture work
must have been incredible
even before they started the
building because these things,
you just don't say, hey,
let's cut some block
and let's put it in place.
You've got it planned out,
you've got it sketched out.
I wonder where those plans are.
I wonder if they're in
the Hall of Records.
>>OLSEN: We've got to get
down below the great pyramids.
It's a honeycomb of
chambers down there.
When I was there in March '97,
they had just-- I'm sorry,
March '93-- they had just had
that guy, Rudolf Gantenbrink,
who had the little
robot that went--
>>NOORY: That drilled
a little hole?
>>OLSEN: Yep.
And they were also doing sonar
scanning of the Giza Plateau
and found that it's
like Swiss cheese.
There are chambers everywhere.
But you ask Zahi
Hawass, who's in charge
of Egyptian antiquities--
>>NOORY: At least he was.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
They'll say, oh, there's maybe
a couple of tombs or chambers
here and there, but now what's
described by these people that
did the sonar scanning.
And then when they tried to
come back in and follow up,
they weren't granted
the permits to do it.
>>NOORY: I tried to interview
Zahi Hawass on "Coast
to Coast," Brad, and the mere
thought that Egyptians didn't
do this or it was done
with high technology
or maybe even the
alien technology,
he don't want anything
to do with it at all.
>>OLSEN: None at all.
And he goes around the
world poo-pooing anyone
who has theories that not
only Egyptian antiquities are
anything older than
3,000 BCE, but even
like the Bosnian pyramids,
that they do research
every summer in.
They've found a network of
tunnels under those pyramids.
He says they were
just coincidence
or maybe they're
just water chambers.
>>NOORY: This principle
of levitation,
how do you think it
was accomplished?
>>OLSEN: Well, I
feature the story
of a Swedish physician
who is invited
to go to Tibet in the 1930s.
I've featured in my
book, "Future Esoteric."
And he was allowed to see
how the Tibetans moved
giant blocks.
And basically, and I
even have the diagrams,
I reprinted them in
"Future Esoteric,"
they created three
semicircles of the monks.
Some were playing drums,
others on trumpets,
and others were chanting.
>>NOORY: So sound resonance.
>>OLSEN: Sound resonance.
And once the sound
got loud enough, it
was a cacophony of sound, and
everybody's attention went up
with the trumpets, the
block in the center of them
also rose and went
right into place.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>OLSEN: And he went back--
>>NOORY: Once they reached a
certain kind of sound level.
>>OLSEN: Correct.
Which would have been a
cacophony of sound that
would have just made you put
your hands over your ears
it was so loud.
>>NOORY: How do they direct it?
I mean because if the sound
is emitting everywhere,
what was to keep them from
floating and things like that?
So they must of have a directed
pulse of this somewhere.
>>OLSEN: Correct.
And this is where the human
consciousness plays a factor.
Because when they were
ready to move the stone,
the trumpets started
going up and then
all of the monks heads started
going up and just at the same--
>>NOORY: And the
blocks went up, right?
>>OLSEN: That's right.
So I think if you have
a whole monastery filled
with Buddha-like
conscious monks,
they have some power of their
mind that can move objects.
>>NOORY: And you better
be playing it continuously
or it would drop, wouldn't it?
>>OLSEN: Well, yeah.
It could if you just
stopped and let it go.
>>NOORY: If you simply
stop playing or creating
that kind of sound vibration,
these things would just plop.
That's how they probably
put them in place, right?
>>OLSEN: They got them up to
a ledge and then they were
wincing them from that point--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: --according to
this eyewitnesses testimony.
>>NOORY: And then they
just probably slowed down
on the music and down it came.
I love it.
There was an individual
at Coral Castle in Florida
by the name of
Edward Leedskalnin.
And Edward said
once, and I'm going
to have you describe
Coral Castle-- we'll even
look at a video-- that he knew
the secret of the pyramids.
>>OLSEN: Right.
>>NOORY: So let's look at
this video on Coral Castle
and then let's talk about that.
Here we go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Brad, an incredible
piece of video
that showed Edward Leedskalnin,
who was a little man, and Coral
Castle, these huge
blocks of stone
that he made and built himself.
He had no help.
As a matter of fact, I'm told
that several small boys peered
at him one night
as he was working
and witnessed him levitating
stones and blocks.
>>OLSEN: That's right.
And he was very secretive.
He would not allow
anyone to work.
The only witnesses were, as
you described, some local boys.
And it's very
interesting to point out
that Coral Castle is the only
modern megalithic structure
in the world.
We have megalithic structures
on just about every continent
of the world, none
of them have been
created in the last few hundred
years except Coral Castle.
And as you said, he
would only give the clue
that he knew the secrets
of the ancient Egyptians,
meaning that he must have
been either reincarnated
with some kind of
memory or maybe
had some ancient texts
in his possession--
>>NOORY: Or somebody
gave him something.
>>OLSEN: Or somebody
>>NOORY: He was an
expert in magnetics
and he wrote a book on
magnetics, a real small one.
I've got it in one
of my libraries.
And he had said in
the book that it's not
just metal that
is magnetized, it
is any substance that you
can create polarity for.
I'm beginning to wonder if he
used that to move those blocks.
He also had a machine
there that nobody
could figure out how it worked
because it was in pieces.
I guess somebody must have
raided the place after he died
or something.
But he may have been
able use that machine
to move the blocks, as well.
He moved from an area of
Florida to Homestead, Florida,
and there was a story once
that a flatbed truck came by
and he was going to load the
blocks of stone-- these are
huge, tons and tons-- and the
truck driver said, where's
your help?
I mean what's going on here?
And he said, oh, you just
go away for a little bit.
You come back in a few hours,
it'll be loaded and ready.
And he went, yeah, right.
He did, he want away.
Truck driver comes back
and all the blocks of stone
are loaded on this
flatbed truck.
How in the heck did Edward
Leedskalnin do that?
>>OLSEN: And he was just a
little guy, like you said,
99 pounds and very slight frame.
Certainly not with muscle
power, that's for sure.
>>NOORY: Even if there
were 10 guys there.
>>OLSEN: No.
Or even with his
cranes and winches,
how do you get megalithic blocks
off the ground onto a flatbed?
And then he would say,
park the truck there,
I'll have it empty for
you in the morning.
Sure enough, he would.
Not only would he have
the flatbed offloaded,
but the bricks would
be up in place.
These giant blocks would
be up on the wall where
he wanted to position them.
So Coral Castle is clearly
one of the greatest mysteries
of the world.
>>NOORY: It truly is.
>>OLSEN: And I certainly feature
it in "Sacred Places North
America."
>>NOORY: He left Eastern Europe
to come to the United States
and I believe he waited for his
love of his life to join him
and built Coral Castle
in her remembrance
in his love for her.
She never showed up, did she?
>>OLSEN: No.
His sweet 16, he called her.
>>NOORY: Agnes.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
And she probably had no idea
that he built this whole thing
in her honor.
>>NOORY: I wonder if he
died a sad man, Brad.
>>OLSEN: They say he
died brokenhearted.
He was certainly a loner.
He always worked alone, he
insisted on always being alone,
usually under the
cover of darkness.
And you would also quarry
the stones himself, as well.
How he was able to cut them to
be able to fit so precisely--
>>NOORY: And move them.
>>OLSEN: --and move them
is just a profound mystery.
>>NOORY: I know the
secrets of the pyramid.
>>OLSEN: How they built them.
>>NOORY: Isn't that amazing,
because he did the same thing--
much smaller level,
but he did it.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
He sure did.
>>NOORY: And took it
with him to the grave.
>>OLSEN: He did, indeed.
And if there were any regrets
about the Coral Castle,
it would be why couldn't he
have just told us how he did it?
But again, maybe he was
employing technology
that was used by the
ancients to build
many of these megalithic
sites around the world.
And maybe he didn't feel
we were ready for it.
>>NOORY: Are we ready now?
>>OLSEN: I think we are.
We're talking about it.
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
Have you been there?
>>OLSEN: I've been
very close to there.
My dad was just there when
I sent him on a mission
to collect some information
and he came back
with everything they
owned in the book store.
>>NOORY: It's owned
by a couple now
and I guess they use it
as a little tourist resort
area for people.
And I hope they're doing well.
It's a great place.
I haven't been
there, but if I ever
get down to Homestead, Florida,
definitely it's on my list.
>>OLSEN: Just outside of
Miami on your way to the Keys.
>>NOORY: It's fascinating.
>>OLSEN: Yes
And again, those
pictures of him--
I mean he was just a very
small, frail little guy.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
If we could set the time
machine back 100 years,
George, we should go
back and interview him.
>>NOORY: There are other
places on this planet,
ancient places like Stonehenge,
that are equally baffling.
Let's take a peek.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: Stonehenge
is the most important
prehistoric monument in Europe,
perhaps the whole world.
Its impressive design and
meticulous construction
are unmatched anywhere.
Located in southwest
England, its stone circles
were made from 160
enormous megaliths,
some weighing over
50 tons and measuring
over six meters in height.
The sheer magnitude of
a structure so ancient
defies belief.
>>NOORY: OK, Brad, how
do you explain that one?
>>OLSEN: Another megalithic
site, very, very old.
We know this is of
the Neolithic era.
And with the amount
of stones that
were used in their
creation, including there
is an outer ring of what they
call the blue stones, which
came from Wales.
Again we're talking
about a huge effort
to transport the stones to the
site and then use them in a way
that the earliest Christian
people who saw them
thought it was used
for devil worship.
So what we see at
Stonehenge today
is a mere shell of
what it used to be.
And many of the megaliths,
including almost all
of the blue stones, are lost.
But archaeoastronomers are
able to use what's left
and find out that
Stonehenge is actually
a very accurate
calendar, which can
predict the rising of the summer
solstice as well as the sunset.
And if you were an
ancient shaman who
was in charge of the
well-being of your people--
and this is also very similar
to the medicine wheels in North
America, which also denote
the solstice lines-- when
your tribe is meant to
migrate or plant the seeds,
having a knowledge of when
the seasons are coming around
and even, for star
gazing purposes,
would be highly
beneficial to your role
as a shaman in this tribe.
>>NOORY: What baffles
me, not only just looking
at the size of those stones,
but the fact that they
were able to layer them
on top and go around.
I mean how did they
get them up there?
It makes no sense.
>>OLSEN: A great mystery.
And perhaps once
again, we're talking
about auditive levitation
as a technique.
And they did show in the
video the little dimple on top
and the other sarsen
stones would fit in
and would match the dimple.
So they obviously knew
what they were doing enough
to prefabricate the
stones before they went
to the step of placing them in
the right order of where they
needed to be.
>>NOORY: Throughout this
planet, historically
there was incredible
technology and knowledge.
It's gone.
Even with the greatest
minds of today,
with the computers, with
everything we have, Brad,
we can't figure out
how they did it.
We can't do it today.
What happened?
>>OLSEN: What happened was
there was a great loss of--
>>NOORY: Something happened.
>>OLSEN: --of information
that we're only now starting
to collect and recreate,
such as at Stonehenge
they now realize that
there were avenues
that lead into it all
the way to Avebury,
where there's another
great stone circle.
There is the West
Kennet Long Barrow,
which is another
megalithic site,
conveniently called a tomb,
as many of the dolmans
around Europe and even some in
North America are said to be.
But I would say they had a
larger function, especially
when the summer solstice shines
right through the cavity.
Or in the case of Newgrange,
Ireland, on the winter solstice
shines right through,
the only day,
and illuminates a
triple spiral carving
in the middle of the recess.
>>NOORY: Great
positioning, wasn't it?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
They had to have known.
It had to have been built
around this very auspicious day.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's not luck.
>>OLSEN: No.
It goes beyond that.
>>NOORY: What if civilizations
are like Michael Cremo
says, hundreds of
millions of years
old, hundreds of
millions of years old?
Is it possible that they had
incredible technology then
from ancients who
were very modernistic
and then as calamities occurred,
we lost that knowledge?
>>OLSEN: Well, then we're
talking about antediluvian
civilizations here
on Earth that may
have been planted from
extraterrestrial progenitors.
We're talking about
not only Atlantis,
but before that Lemuria and,
according to Madame Blavatsky,
as I illustrate in
"Modern Esoteric,"
there were even farther
back civilizations.
So what Cremo said very
much could be true.
And the evidence is
in the archaeology.
Some of this archaeology
is even underwater,
such as the site off of Japan.
There are these megalithic
stones carved right
into the rock.
And you have a
pyramid on Java island
which appears to
be very, very old,
washed over by a tidal wave.
I could go on and on,
but a lot of evidence
that a high
civilization, or several,
existed on this planet.
>>NOORY: I want to show,
Brad, everybody your book,
"Modern Esoteric," that you
published and put together
yourself.
A great job.
As you were putting it together,
what one thing in the book
just truly baffled you?
>>OLSEN: Well, "Modern
Esoteric" pretty much
picks up where the "Sacred
Places" books leave off
because some of these
mysteries are just so much
greater than illustrating
108 locations on two or three
pages, especially, as
we've been discussing,
the Great Pyramid and some
of the Megalithic sites.
But I think the
big takeaway for me
when I was researching and
writing "Modern Esoteric" was
the fact that, again,
history is not giving us
a complete picture of the
real human experience,
that there is evidence that
is right there in plain sight
that we can utilize to
paint a mosaic picture that
is much bigger and much
more complete and much older
than anybody's
given it credit for,
except for people like
Michael Cremo and others.
>>NOORY: Wouldn't you
have loved to have lived
during this era as a witness?
>>OLSEN: Maybe we all did.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
All right.
There's an area in Europe.
There's a cathedral there
called Chartres Cathedral, which
is also equally
baffling, is it not?
>>OLSEN: Well, it is.
And while this is the
newest of the sites
we're discussing, because it
is a Gothic cathedral mixed
with elements of Romanesque.
That's what makes
Chartres so interesting
is one of the towers
is Romanesque,
the other is Gothic.
It was built by the
Knights Templar,
who were coming back
from the Holy Land
with many, many secrets.
What's so terribly
interesting about Chartres
and many other of the
sacred places in Europe
and elsewhere that I
illustrate in my books is they
were built upon
much older sites--
pagan sites, earlier
churches, even natural wells
or caves or features
in the landscape.
So if we're talking
about going back,
George, if we could look at
the world before development,
I think with our
naked eye we'd be
able to discern
that spot over there
is much more interesting
than this spot here.
Let's build our little
pagan shrine here
and then other people come
and that spot stays important.
And next thing you know, you
have a cathedral and a town
that's built up around it.
>>NOORY: Surely amazing.
Let's take a look at
Chartres Cathedral.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: Over 800
years ago, Europe's
first Gothic cathedrals
rose from the dust
of the Middle Ages,
great monuments
to God and the Virgin Mary.
Erected at a time when
all of Western Europe
was Roman Catholic,
the cathedrals
came to symbolize both faith in
God and pride in the community.
So it was that in
the early Middle
Ages, a small town in France
banded together and created
one of the greatest
Christian sanctuaries
the world has ever known.
In many ways, it
would set the standard
for all Gothic
cathedrals to come.
This is our Lady of Chartres.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Chartres Cathedral stands on
a hill above the river Eure
in the town of Chartres, some
56 miles southwest of Paris.
Its spires rise like
beacons on the horizon
and can be seen from miles away.
Today its majestic
carved towers and facades
project a medieval
splendor in what has become
an increasingly modern time.
And you can come
here today, just
as people have for
hundreds of years,
to worship and to marvel.
>>NOORY: Brad, another
modern miracle I think.
I mean that was absolutely
a gorgeous structure.
>>OLSEN: It really is, George.
And I had the great
opportunity of touring it
for a full day inside and out.
>>NOORY: Is it huge?
>>OLSEN: Oh, it's huge.
There are bigger Gothic
cathedrals elsewhere,
but this one is so
unique because it
has underground crypts, it
has this great labyrinth when
you walk into it
with inlaid stones,
and the stained glass is
really second to none.
It is just incredible.
When you walk in there,
you're like walking
into another environment.
>>NOORY: Who were these
people who built this?
>>OLSEN: Well, the
Freemasons, who
then came out of
the Knights Templar
and were master stone cutters
and would travel around
the countryside working on
many of these cathedrals.
Many of the great Gothic
cathedrals you see often
had the same workmen
or architects
who would parallel
projects sometimes.
>>NOORY: Now, you
do other things.
What is the Weird Street Faire?
>>OLSEN: The How
Weird Street Faire
is an event that I founded
in San Francisco, which
started with just two stages
and some vendor friends of ours.
When I started CCC Publishing,
it was this artist's warehouse
on Howard Street,
hence the name.
And we were doing these
electronic dance music parties.
The first How Weird-- 17 years
ago was about 2,000 people.
Now we're 10 blocks away
in the SOMA neighborhood,
25,000 people.
It's just growing
beyond proportions
and that's a job that
takes up a couple of months
of my time every year.
>>NOORY: What is
it about mysteries,
Brad, that people
are just so into?
They just love them.
>>OLSEN: I think people have
an intuitive sense that there's
more to the picture
than is being told.
And I think deep down we have
a yearning to understand,
and it's not just
who we are but it's
all of what we are
here on the planet.
And that's what makes
these books and your show
so utterly fascinating
and why so many of us
really think you're doing such
a great service to humanity
by even bringing many of
these issues to light.
>>NOORY: Well, these
are right topics
that I think make people wonder.
And they make them research
and they make them--
the internet has been
incredible for this.
Companies like yours that
publish books and stories
on events that are
happening worldwide
are just fantastic, as well.
And I think some television
shows like Discovery
and National Geographic
are beginning
to jump in and cover these
kinds of programs as well.
This is an amazing planet.
Something happened
a long time ago.
Whether we were visited
by extraterrestrials
and seeded, as the late
Zecharia Sitchin has
one set in his works,
something dramatic
has happened on this planet.
And I think that's our push
to get that answer, isn't it?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
And we'll never get that answer
unless we pose questions.
And those questions need
to be very provocative
and need to challenge the
dominant paradigm of thought.
And only through further
research, new discoveries
can this great mosaic of who
we are on planet Earth truly
come to fruition.
>>NOORY: Brad, do you think
modern science is intentionally
withholding information?
Do you think they know,
whoever they may be,
how these things happened?
>>OLSEN: Well, it would have to
be compartmentalized to a point
that not many people would
know the big picture.
And this is where a lot
of things in UFO research
goes is that to know what
MJ12, for example, knows
wouldn't be what, say, some
of the top generals know.
But even still, there's a saying
that you can disguise a lie,
you can make it
seem like the truth
but it's never really the truth.
The truth will always be a
constant in the universe.
It's like a pillar.
And everything else will just
eventually fall away and then
what you're left with
is still the truth.
And this is the truth
and it will come out.
>>NOORY: If you could get one
of these questions answered
about anything, what is that
one thing you'd like answered?
>>OLSEN: I would like
to know the true story
of the antediluvian
civilizations on this earth,
what kind of technology
they employed,
and if they were an
aspect of us or us.
Maybe we're they're descendants.
>>NOORY: Now, Mr. Olsen, you're
asking three questions, not
one.
>>OLSEN: Poised together as one.
>>NOORY: You may get that wish.
You may get that wish.
I would like to find
out the true origin
of the Great Pyramid.
That's what I want.
I mean I would like to--
if we could go historically
back and look at a
video of it being built,
I think that would
tell us everything.
If we could only go
into a time machine,
go back to that era, whenever
that era might have been,
and just see how
it was constructed,
you might see people levitating
things into place or UFOs
doing it, right,
moving it along.
>>OLSEN: Or at least
Galen is another creation.
>>NOORY: But I really doubt you
had 100,000 Egyptians pulling
ropes to move one block.
>>OLSEN: No.
No, it didn't happen that way.
I had the great opportunity
of actually climbing
the Great Pyramid on a
full moon in March 1993.
Of course, you're
not allowed to do it.
And it was an opportunity
that I really wanted to do
and I was able to get up there
during the sound and light
show.
Because I don't know
if you know this,
but when a light
goes on very bright,
the human eye does
not adjust right away.
>>NOORY: No, it takes a while.
>>OLSEN: So I knew this and they
were doing the sound and light
show and the pyramid
would go up in lights
and then it would go dark.
So I used that as
my opportunity.
I looked around and didn't
see any guards, started
sprinting up there right
when the lights went down,
hid when the lights came up.
It took me three
segments to get up there
and wow, was that incredible.
>>NOORY: What a view huh?
>>OLSEN: I actually saw
a mouse up there, too.
>>NOORY: A mouse?
They made it up there.
>>OLSEN: Made it up there.
>>NOORY: I love it.
How do people get a hold of
you or get to your website?
>>OLSEN: You can find me on
the web on bradolsen.com or CCC
Publishing to read any of my
books or the other authors
that I publish.
I'm also all over Facebook.
I have a YouTube channel
called "Esoteric Series,"
and it's easy enough to find.
>>NOORY: Brad, always thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>OLSEN: Thank you, George.
It was a pleasure to be here.
>>NOORY: What an exciting aspect
of all of this, of what we do,
and that's trying
to get these answers
to these incredible
mysteries that
have occurred on our planet.
And maybe just one day we
will get those answers.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]